so what you're saying is that we need a
healthy game we're only fans
no that's not what i'm saying at all
all right maybe one day i was thinking
about the inundation of
porn and graphic sexual content in
today's culture i was wondering what
would be dr k's thoughts on how this is
affecting the human mind and mental
health
i feel that genuine human intimacy is
going down in this day and age but it
could just be me
sexuality is something so common and
frequent to humans naturally however
that it just seems natural that in the
internet age it would be everywhere
however i feel that
as i said this is affecting human
intimacy and it
at least in my eyes seems to be making
sexuality and sexual experiences
not as special or exciting as they
should be just some thoughts in the
community would love to hear people's
ideas
okay let me think about this oh man so i
think this is such a complicated
question like so the simplest questions
actually have the most complicated
answers because it depends on what level
you want to talk about okay
so if we want to try to understand the
inundation
of porn and sexuality and like sexually
explicit
not even sexually explicit it's actually
implicit
things on the internet right so if you
look at things like
the hot tub meta on twitch that's not
sexually explicit but sexually implicit
so we are absolutely being inundated and
bombarded
with sexual stimuli and so the question
is what does that
do to us and the short answer is like no
one really knows but i suspect it ain't
great
so here's what we do know if we look at
content on the internet what i have come
to realize
is that like the content that does well
is the stuff that from an
evolutionary or sort of takes advantage
of like
the evolution of our brains so our
brains have evolved to be attracted to
particular things
and though that attraction in our brain
led to survival benefits
so a good example of this is like we're
attracted to high calorie density food
so we're attracted to food that is like
you know sugary
fatty delicious right we call it
delicious
like food that is like low calorie is
not usually considered
delicious and so then what happens is
we've our brain is
our body has evolved to have a
preference for this one thing
because it used to be a survival
advantage and then we started making
like you know twinkies
and then suddenly people are now dying
of diabetes
because their body has evolved to tell
them to like
eat this unhealthy food and what we have
is we have industries that have adapted
to this evolutionary preference like
fast food
right so like we have calorie dense
pizza all this kind of stuff i had pizza
last night it was delicious
i hadn't had pizza in a while and i like
a thousand calories
and like our so we have entire
industries that have adapted
to meet this need and then what happens
is like the industries is sort of like
we're just making the pizza like we're
not you know people can choose to eat it
or not eat and it's like we're just
making pizza
right and so there's like personal
freedom arguments and all that kind of
stuff but i think industries are
adapting
to fit the existing
architecture of our brains and i think
this has essentially happening with the
internet
dopamine and like sexuality
so you know the last big revolution that
was
predatory on the way that our brains and
bodies
have evolved may have been like the food
industry and now what we've got is this
whole
cognitive like technology
like predatory kind of stuff i don't
think they're oh i mean some of them
are trying to be predatory some of them
aren't trying to be predatory
right so if like you're a game designer
some of them are like you know sitting
there like
as cfo and trying to think like how can
we extract
more how can we like extract more juice
from this
sweet sweet pudgy gamer and then like
some people are like you know how can i
make the game that i want to play how
can i make a game that's more fun
than anything i've ever played before
and
and so both of those things will end up
with
with arguably like things that will be
predatory on our
on our circuitry and so i think we're
seeing this in sexuality as well where
like content people are sort of figuring
out like
you know instagram is a good example
right so like everyone is like editing
instagram photos and i saw that there
was recently legislation in norway
where you have to like let people know
that your instagram is edited
and so like what everyone is doing is
they're like gravitating towards like
these people aren't really sure they
don't they're not neuroscientists but if
i'm an instagram model i'm gonna real
like i'm gonna figure out from a
darwinian sense
right i'm gonna try this post and it's
not gonna work i'm gonna try this post
it is gonna work oh what did i do there
oh i was wearing something skimpier
okay now i'm gonna try skimpy but this
is too skimpy and now people think that
i'm kind of like
you know who ish so like people didn't
like that as much so i need to be like
just who is enough right so that's sort
of like the idea behind like and they
figure this out
they figure out like how the brain is
wired and what leads
to the most kind of like pull
so some of the impacts that we're seeing
are you know we're seeing things like
pornography addiction
so we're seeing that for example the
more likely you are to get addicted to
pornography like
depends on how early you were exposed to
pornography
and also the intensity of the
pornography that you were exposed to
so we are seeing real like like
psychiatric consequences
we're also seeing is this person
suggests like some confusion around
intimacy and expectations
so a lot of people who you know grow up
watching porn will have particular
expectations
of what the appropriate response is
so i one time had a patient who told me
that they were unable to have
an orgasm when they masturbate and as i
talk to them
i realize like actually when they
masturbate they are having an
orgasm it's just in the pornography
there's like so they used to say that i
get i can get to the first part of
orgasm
i was like what do you mean the first
part of orgasm and they're like well i
get a little of
i get like a small amount of ejaculate
but i don't get to the full ejaculate
i was like what do you mean the full
ejaculate and then i realized that like
when you watch pornography
there's such a copious amount of
ejaculate
that like this person had what i assumed
to be like a normal ejaculation
i still remember i looked up what is
that
i still remember like after an
appointment i looked up what is the
average amount of human
what is the median amount of human
ejaculate in milliliters
and so pornography had given this this
idea that like orgasm is this like just
explosion of like buckets of ejaculation
and they just didn't understand that
right so like they would actually
masturbate and they like they thought
they were like busted in some way
so like you know the impacts of
pornography is their pornography
addiction
absolutely is it affecting with intimacy
like i think so and then there are all
these other like
unexpected outcomes that we just
don't we're not gonna know right like
you can't predict
that if people watch a lot of
pornography like teenagers are gonna get
confused about when they have an orgasm
that's not like you just can't make that
prediction but it's it's an effect
and so you know what effect is it having
the short answer is like we sort of
don't know
so we're certainly seeing some of these
things like you know death grip syndrome
and some of these other things where our
brain is like wiring to expect a certain
kind of stimulus
and then it takes some time for us to
like rewire to like regular stimuli
and so you know there are a couple of
things like this but the short answer is
like is it affecting us
absolutely and the reason that we don't
know is because pornography and sexually
sexual sexually explicit and implicit
material is evolving so quickly that we
can't even study it like we can't study
it fast enough
so if you think about you know five
years ago like only fans didn't exist
but at least i don't think so maybe it
did
but now what's happening is like i'm
sure that only fans the parasocial
element
of only fans is going to create intimacy
issues and real relationships
because it for you know for a long time
partners have always been concerned
about what was i saying oh yeah only
fans
so you know partners for a long time
have been
concerned that like oh if my partner
watches pornography like
it feels like they're cheating right
like partners have all like been
concerned about you know watching
pornography and like you know
whatever and then like i think that
there's an emotional component there's a
parasocial component on only fans
which is a is going to exacerbate
those kinds of feelings and the people
who are like are vulnerable to them
right so like
it's completely possible that you know
their majority of the population or
maybe the minor i have no idea
we'll be totally fine with you know
someone donating 100 or
or purchasing i guess you know 100 or a
thousand dollars of content a month
on only fans like some partners may be
like comfortable with that right because
polyamory is also growing like open
relationships are growing
like there's the everything's changing
so that could be fine
but at the same time i think that like
the reason that only fans is successful
is because
pornography has evolved and what people
have figured out is that like
there's an element to pornography that's
purely physical and it started off with
a magazine right there's like
zero interaction and then like how
much will it prey on our brain if i get
like interaction with that woman
i can lust for a particular i'm just
sort of think about the heteronormative
here
and a masculine perspective but you know
if i if i'm a man and i'm lusting
for a woman wha like looking at a
playboy magazine like that's fine but
then
suddenly like i'm able to interact with
the woman i'm able to get the woman's
attention like i'm able to like
have more contact with her and we just
saw from a post earlier today that like
you know people can get addicted to
twitch and stuff because these
parasocial interactions
so there's like the sh like you know
what effect is it having honestly as a
scientist
the right answer is i don't know and no
one does
and at the same time we are clearly
seeing signs
of something is changing in our brains
in the way that we interact with each
other
now i'm not going to be quite as
doomsday as many people will
everyone's like oh my god the world is
coming to the end like like
only fans will be the death of all
relationships and i'm sure that someone
out there believes that
but i also think that you know the
reason we stream on twitch is because we
can sort of fight fire with fire right
so like we can
um we can people can become addicted to
twitch and people can hopefully watch
twitch which i know sounds kind of weird
to like help themselves not become
addicted to twitch
it's bizarre but i think that we can
probably like we can teach people how to
have healthier conversations and
relationships
i've done that before in terms of like
you know pornography
and and only fans and stuff like that
like how can you communicate with your
partner because
that kind of communication education
like hasn't been available for most of
the history of humanity so it's possible
that we can just build healthy
relationships despite all this stuff by
just learning more about ourselves
so what you're saying is that we need a
healthy game we're only fans
no that's not what i'm saying at all
oh my god
all right maybe one day i'm happy on
twitch
chat okay
right and and so this is where like is
this is this the same person that was
asking is this why magneto is never
depressed
just to be clear the world is changing
we don't know how
it's changing is it causing problems
probably and or yes and i don't think
that that means that the world should
stop changing right so like the whole
goal of humanity is that new challenges
arise and like
as the human race like we have to figure
out
how to like unscrew ourselves from all
the screwing over we've done
so like you know the industrial
revolution happened and we started like
using fossil fuels a ton
and now there's like concerns around
climate change so we gotta like fix
that right so they're like reforestation
projects and like you know all kinds of
things that
that is the human race hopefully we'll
you know start doing
and so that there's happening there's a
cognitive revolution as well there's
like a cognitive change there's like
like you know we're doing a lot of
things that cognitively offer short-term
benefits
and there's almost like a cognitive
climate change
happening right now with the human race
and i think the reason that we we're
seeing so much more mental
illness and why mental illness is
getting worse and suicide is getting a
little bit worse if not
significantly worse depression is
increasing anxiety is increasing i think
it's a sign
of this cognitive climate change so does
pornography have something to do with
that sure is only fans have something to
do with that sure does youtube have
something to do with that sure
switch have something to do with that
sure and are these things
evil do we want to stop advancing as a
human race and like stop advancing
technology just because
it has some downsides i personally don't
think so i think this is where like
we can learn about ourselves and we can
manage it i love video games
yeah so when when vr develops haptic
feedback that is gonna
eliminate the human race i gave a talk
about this at a
video game developer conference a few
years ago
that my biggest concern about the
pornography industry is when
you can have haptic feedback with vr
and like then like literally people may
stop having children
and then like you incorporate things
like ai and stuff
like and you have like a fully virtual
girlfriend
that will throw temper tantrums and
frustrate you
and then yeah ai waifu with haptic
feedback then it's like gg dude
so you know there's this idea right now
that like people who are into waifus are
like less than human
you know people will mock them a lot and
will denigrate them a lot and things
like that
but i think as technology improves like
just like gaming has become we used to
do that with the gamers
remember that chat you remember when
gamers used to be the minority
and before everyone was doing it and
then as games got better
everyone started doing it
the waifu revolution is coming chat
prepare yourselves